// Chapter 1A: Des makes stew. Rivan shows up. Rivan stays. Melora comes and they meet. Atreis comes last.

The sun comes up again but brings no warmth. The cold has taken over me. I use my last remaining strength to bring out the stored firewood. The irony of finding food long after my hunger has left me. It stirs something, hope. Once the fire gets going, the world becomes a little more real. As strength returns I put on a pot on the fire and start brewing some stew.
I am back to my drinking, when a stranger appears. A man not much older than Julius. Slouched under a rucksack, axe in hand. He loosens his grip and hangs the axe to his side. He drops the rucksack with a thud and stands close to the fire. His eyes may have left me but he is aware of my every move.
"A pot full of stew". "In the middle of nowhere." "You expecting someone?" His voice is labored and the pauses seem necessary. I nod. "Funny, the flipped benches say different." His speech gets faster as he takes in the warmth. "Is she here?"
I wonder who he is looking for. "I have been here not more than two days and I have seen no woman"
"Where are the Vinchets? Who are you?" His hand slides inside his cloak.
"Just another traveller seeking shelter." I see no reason to lie.
A knife comes out. "Traveller? You are living here and the owners are not." 
His walk is now steady as he closes the distance between us. I can make it for the door, but I don't. He twists and turns the knife in his hand smoothly. I strengthen my grip on the mug.
Just the bar counter between us. "Where is my sister?" His teeth are clenched. 
"I don't know." I whisper, watching the knife closely.
The knife moves faster, "where is she?"
I gulp, unsure what the right answer is. In a single motion, it stops right at my throat. He breathes, "I will not ask again."
Slowly, calmly I let the mug go and it lands on the counter. His grip loosens and he lets go of me. Turning the knife he lodges it square into the counter and walks away. He sits with his back to me. His resignation resonates with mine.
I grab two bowls of stew and put on the table along with mugs of ale. Many questions linger as we finish our stew.
Eventually I speak, "So why do you seek your sister?"
"Melora. Her name is Melora. She left home without a word."
How many more have left home never to return? I hope she returns.
"Lord Dottan would have made a good husband. She would have been safe in his keep. Running instead of talking, that's Melora."
Slowly, he begins collecting his rucksack. A part of me wishes him success, the other wishes he stays. "You can stay the night. There are rooms upstairs."
He rejects the idea, "I cannot linger. She is close, I can feel it."
With the rucksack on his back, he glances, "Thank you for the food."
"Of course. You sure you do not want to stay?" I plead.
"Once she goes past Westbend, she will be impossible to find," he reasons.
"She might already be past." I immediately regret chipping at his hope. "Or she might still come in the next few days."
His determination wavers, and I seize the moment. "Maybe just rest for the night."
"Alright! But then I must go, first to Westbend and then home, with or without Melora," he resigns.
I tidy one of the rooms as I used to when Julius would come back. But he isn't Julius, just a passerby. Sleep never truly comes as I wonder who else is lost? Or who else will show up?

The main hall is supposed to be empty and dark. The fire illuminates a slight woman. Calmly engrossed in yesterday's stew. I notice the mug of Golden Liquid as I walk in. Next to an old sword. It's sharp. I stop. "Don't be afraid. Just passing through." 
She stands up to reveal a crossbow alongside a satchel. "The man who arrived yesterday. Rivan. Tell him to stop looking for me. I will not be in Westbend or Greywatch. He should go home."
I take a step back, "Let me get him."
"Not necessary." She sheathes the sword, "Give him the message."
I am next to her but she won't match my gaze. "If you just talk to him, you might not have to run."
After a moment, she turns around. Looking dead into my eyes, "I am not running and I am not interested in what he says."
I hold her shoulder as she steps away. I feel her hesitation and hold tighter to stop her.
The next moment, my arm is twisting behind my back. She is surprisingly strong and unbelievably agile.
"This is not your fight." She releases me with a push. I stumble but don't fall. And with that she is out of the door.
Rivan slowly descends the steps. "What was that?"
I answer, "Melora."
He is fully awake within the second and runs out of the door.
As I reach the door, I see sunlight for the first time in days. Rivan catches up to Melora, but she does not break stride. When his words aren't enough, he attempts to grab her. She does not fight back. They exchange words and then he slowly falls to his knees. She begins walking away, faster this time. I run to Rivan with a cloak. Melora watches me cover him from the treeline. As our eyes lock, she dissappears. Did she nod?
I bring Rivan back to the tavern. "She won't tell where she is going. Did she tell you?" I shake my head, but I know where the forest leads. 
I watch him gather his things. "A fight every day." He gets his knife from the counter. "I once had to abandon my station for her." He pulls the drawstring on his rucksack and winces. "Got 10 lashes for it.".
I silently watch as another family falls apart, too powerless to do anything. 
He leaves heading East. Not after her. Not to the Untamed Lands.

I set my drink aside as a clip clop sound announces the arrival of a horse. A man walks in protected by a wolf fur around his neck. It goes well with his white cloak.
"Hello there," he says with a smile and an upbeat voice. "They always talked about their sister, Meryl. But no one had the pleasure of meeting her."
Has he mistaken me for this, Meryl?
"I am talking about the brothers. Of course." He pauses as his voice quivers, "The Vinchet brothers."
"I am no Meryl. And I don't know any Vinchets." I reply coldly.
"I know." He is surprised, "your honesty is nonetheless noted."
Noticing my quizzical look, he replies, "you see, I was tasked with finding Meryl, and find her I did. Alas she had long been dead." His voice trails off.
After a moment of silence he continues, "I never got a chance to tell them."
"The Vinchets. Of course", his voice quivers at the name again. He trembles himself out of some thought, "where was I?"
"I am Atreis. I run a small trading operation. Greyfort. Westbend. Retheim in the North. And now the Last Hearth."
I had crossed Retheim on my journey here. Too big. Too rich.
He goes on, "oh, forgive my bluntness. But who are you?" 
Where do I begin? Retheim? What was before Retheim? Do I mention Julius?
He fills his flask with ale and continues, "Look at me stopping to hear a tale that must be long and precious. But I must depart immediately, of course. I had only stopped to pick some Golden Liquid. But you will tell me your story next time."
Stoppering his flask, he loudly announces, "I will be sure to spread the word that the Last Hearth is open again. Courtesy of Meryl." He winks and leaves me with the name. 
I accept it. The hoofs drift away. I take another sip from my goblet.

Patrons have been arriving steadily. Some regulars from Westbend. Many travellers heading to Greyfort. No one from Retheim. They treat me well. Atreis might have something to do with that. But when they truly get to know me, what will they see? Who will I be?

https://chatgpt.com/share/68c62ec2-a9e8-800c-9284-d8f4da29b884
