I close the door with my back at it. The knee buckles. Barely holds me. I instinctively wriggle my fingers. The bear took a piece of my arm but most of me has made it here. At the edge of the world, only wilderness beyond...
The Last Hearth

As I take the hood down and wipe off the flakes of snow from my face, a fully lit tavern appears.
Laughter from a table is drowned by an argument on another. A roar of Huzzah accompanies raised goblets around the fireplace. Is that him? I take a small step towards him. He begins to flicker away. I reach out and grasp nothing. Silence calls his name. 

Julian.

I read the letter in my trembling hand again.
“Nothing like sitting by the fire after a trek to the Untamed Lands. Only thing warmer is your onion soup. You got to make that when I am back”.
The leg hurts again as I stumble back. I trudge past the dead embers in the fireplace.

I drag myself to a stool behind the bar counter. Kegs of ale marked “Golden Liquid” linger under the bar. "Goes down like milk. Hits like a brick. Only found at the Last Hearth. I will bring you a bottle. And no, I am not just drowning my life in alcohol. Can you not?"
I try the Golden Liquid. Another swig. Another page.

“They have found a new kind of mud. It should help with the leaky roof. I will bring some."
The letter slips from my hand, settles on the counter. I expect to see it littered with tears. Instead the tears are on my cheek. Frozen.

The empty bottle rolls off the bar. More darkness. I get a second bottle and read again.
“Dear Mama,…”

A howling wind interrupts me. A silhouette stands in the open door. The stranger slowly drifts towards me while unravelling the garb hiding their face. A wrinkled face fenced by a gray mane reveals the scars of many fights. One in particular has left a deep gash across the left eye.
“I had heard The Last Hearth had been abandoned”. His accent is unfamiliar, maybe Eastern. I remain silent. He continues. “Guess I heard wrong. I also heard there was still some Golden Liquid available. I see that bit is true”.  I pour him a drink with a steady hand. I go back to my drink until the thud of the door. A pair of coins glint on the counter. Cold, unmoving, empty.

// AI Chat: https://chatgpt.com/share/68ac898e-b140-800c-9f02-6e180a4aa97f