// Chapter 1A: Des makes stew, Rivan shows up. TODO: Melora shows up next.

The sun comes up again but brings no warmth. The cold has taken over me. I use my last remaining strength to bring out the stored firewood. The irony of finding food long after my hunger has left me. It stirs something, hope. Once the fire gets going, the world becomes a little more real. As strength returns I put on a pot on the fire and start brewing some stew.
I am back to my drinking, when a stranger appears. A man not much older than Julius. Slouched under a rucksack, axe in hand. He loosens his grip and hangs the axe to his side. He drops the rucksack with a thud and stands close to the fire. His eyes may have left me but he is aware of my every move.
"A pot full of stew". "In the middle of nowhere." "You expecting someone?" His voice is labored and the pauses seem necessary. I nod. "Funny, the flipped benches say different." His speech gets faster as he takes in the warmth. "Is she here?"
I wonder who he is looking for. "I have been here not more than two days and I have seen no woman"
"Where are the Vinchets? Who are you?" His hand slides inside his cloak.
"Just another traveller seeking shelter." I see no reason to lie.
A knife comes out. "Traveller? You are living here and the owners are not." 
His walk is now steady as he closes the distance between us. I can make it for the door, but I don't. He twists and turns the knife in his hand smoothly. I strengthen my grip on the mug.
Just the bar counter between us. "Where is my sister?" His teeth are clenched. 
"I don't know." I whisper, watching the knife closely.
The knife moves faster, "where is she?"
I gulp, unsure what the right answer is. In a single motion, it stops right at my throat. He breathes, "I will not ask again."
Slowly, calmly I let the mug go and it lands on the counter. His grip loosens and he lets go of me. Turning the knife he lodges it square into the counter and walks away. He sits with his back to me. His resignation resonates with mine.
I grab two bowls of stew and put on the table along with mugs of ale. Many questions linger as we finish our stew.
Eventually I speak, "So why do you seek your sister?"
"Melora. Her name is Melora. She left home without a word."
How many more have left home never to return? I hope she returns.
"Lord Dottan would have made a good husband. She would have been safe in his keep. Running instead of talking, that's Melora."
Slowly, he begins collecting his rucksack. A part of me wishes him success, the other wishes he stays. "You can stay the night. There are rooms upstairs."
He rejects the idea, "I cannot linger. She is close, I can feel it."
With the rucksack on his back, he glances, "Thank you for the food."
"Of course. You sure you do not want to stay?" I plead.
"Once she goes past Westbend, she will be impossible to find," he reasons.
"She might already be past." I immediately regret chipping at his hope. "Or she might still come in the next few days."
His determination wavers, and I seize the moment. "Maybe just rest for the night."
"Alright! But then I must go, first to Westbend and then home, with or without Melora," he resigns.
I tidy one of the rooms as I used to when Julius would come back. But he isn't Julius, just a passerby. Sleep never truly comes as I wonder who else is lost? Or who else will show up?


https://chatgpt.com/share/68c04786-80fc-800c-80e0-63c06177f035
